.TH OZ-CUSTOMIZE 1 "Dec 2010" "oz-customize"

.SH NAME
oz-customize - tool to automatically modify installed operating system files

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oz-customize [OPTIONS] <tdl-file> <libvirt-xml-file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a tool to modify already installed operating systems.
Modifications typically involve installing additional packages.  This
program can be used as a counterpart to oz-install, though it does not
have to be used in conjunction.

Note that oz-customize does the actual customization using a combination
of KVM and libvirt, so both of these must be available (and working)
for oz-customize to have a chance to succeed.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "\-c <config>"
Get the configuration from config file \fBconfig\fR, instead of the
default /etc/oz/oz.cfg.  If neither one exists, Oz will use sensible
defaults.  The config file is in standard ini format with two
sections named \fBpaths\fR and \fBlibvirt\fR.  There are two possible keys
under \fBpaths\fR: \fBoutput_dir\fR describes where to store the
images after they are built, and \fBdata_dir\fR describes where to
cache install media and use temporary storage.  Both locations have to
have a decent amount of free disk space in order for oz-customize to
work properly.  There are two possible keys under \fBlibvirt\fR:
\fBuri\fR describes the libvirt URI to use to do the guest
installation, and \fBtype\fR defines what type of virtualization to use.
.TP
.B "\-d <loglevel>"
Turn on debugging output to level \fBloglevel\fR.  The log levels are:
.RS 7
.IP "0 - errors only (this is the default)"
.IP "1 - errors and warnings"
.IP "2 - errors, warnings, and information"
.IP "3 - all messages"
.IP "4 - all messages, prepended with the level and classname"
.RE
.TP
.B "\-h"
Print a short help message.

.SH SEE ALSO
oz-generate-icicle(1), oz-install(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Chris Lalancette <clalance@redhat.com>
